everyone laszlo Montgomery here this
episode is the first in a series that
will introduce you Chinese speaker or
non Chinese speaker to the interesting
and amusing world of Chinese sayings I
thought I'd kick off the series with one
of my personal favorite sayings I came
across this one back during the early
Reagan years right after I began my
Chinese Studies this one isn't terribly
well known but it's very nice textbook
example of how some of these Chinese
idioms and proverbs work as I explained
in the introduction standing on the road
it's hard to tell what some of these
seemingly meaningless phrases are all
about but if you know the backstory
suddenly becomes crystal clear what's up
with that saying like most of these
Chung you or idioms this one's only four
syllables long gwacheon Leisha for
chinese characters agua is a melon just
a generic term for any kind of melon 10
is a field so guat ian is a melon field
Lee well as a character that can be a
number of things it's the character for
most of the people with the lessor named
allie is also a plum and that's what it
means in this case specifically a plum
tree sha the final character means
underneath or below so say these four
characters real fast and you get quad
Thien ly shot melon field under a plum
tree hmm must be a story behind that one
indeed there is otherwise the podcast
series would lack a main point the story
behind melon field under a plum tree
goes back to the 2nd century the time of
Commodus and Rome is last year he was
the loonie emperor of the two thousand
movie Gladiator in China this was the
period of the Eastern Han Dynasty clock
is ticking down on this Diana state and
it will come to an end in the air to 20
there was a poem from that time that's
called the song of the gentleman Jin Zhu
Shing now contained in the lines of this
poem were the words
jinza fan way Ron boutchu hey Jen got
Ian punaluu Leisha boo jomkwan mmm so
what does that mean well Ajinca is a
gentleman fan way Ron in order to
prevent boot sushi gen anything looking
suspicious wat e'en who Nalu never ties
his shoes in a melon field or li jie
zhang quan adjusts his head under a plum
tree now if you're in someone's melon
field and you see your laces are untied
for God's sake wait until you're out of
the field before you tie them otherwise
someone might see you from a distance
and wonder hmmm that guy doing kneeling
down in that melon field is he is he
stealing something from that farmer and
if you're chill it under a plum tree
waiting for someone perhaps don't go
fiddling with your hat if someone sees
you with your arms up in the air
underneath the plum tree they might
misconstrue your actions and think
you're stealing fruit the song of the
gentleman from which this Chung you
example is derived came from somebody
probably never heard of before his name
was culture he wasn't well known
although in its day it was quite a
celebrated man of letters his father is
one of the Giants of ancient Chinese
history and I would dare to say might
make the short list of the top 10 best
known Chinese leaders of all time this
was Sal Tom he was the Chancellor during
the last dozen years of the Eastern hot
he was most powerful military man and
political figure in China at the time
and used his military might and control
of the Han Emperor's to enhances
legitimacy chowder's brother which also
made him tell thao son was named Sal p
now he ended up founding the state of
this hallway this hallway state later
will become one of the three kingdoms
that contended for control of a unified
China soldier teaches us that a
gentleman should exercise proper
judgment at all times and never allow
himself to be observed in circumstances
be considered of a suspicious nature he
teaches that a gentleman should conduct
himself always in such a way that no
matter where he is or what he's doing no
one's gonna look suspiciously on him and
wonder hmm what's up with that guy
what's he doing over there when you're
trying to tell someone don't get caught
in suspicious circumstances he just say
to them hey guaty and licia melon field
under a plum tree and because you're all
now properly schooled in soldiers story
you hold the key that unlocks the
meaning behind this seemingly
meaningless phrase melon field under a
plum tree quoi Thien ly shot ladies and
gentlemen so keep that in mind not just
gentlemen everyone don't put yourself in
a situation where you're potentially
suspect you may be found guilty without
even committing the offense it's not as
bad as getting caught with your hand in
the cookie jar but in a melon field
under a plum tree kind of situation you
definitely might have your hand on the
lid so that is our CSP for this time
Chinese sayings podcast if you found it
to your liking come back for more next
time I'll be offering you up another
pearl of wisdom from China's ancient
philosophers warriors writers statesmen
and kings that still thousands of years
later resonates in our modern 21st
century world and for some enjoyable
readings from antiquarian books by
writers who traveled to China during the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries let
me turn you on to the China vintage hour
you can find the China vintage hour and
this very Chinese sayings podcast have
teacup media that's teacup dot media
tone lazo sent you of course and for
more than a hundred hours of Chinese
history from the earliest days to our
modern time check out the China history
podcast all available for you 24 7 and
teacup dot media we're open on Christmas
and all major bank holidays until the
next time you little beauties this is
laszlo Montgomery signing off from hot
and sunny fantastic la do consider
coming back next time for another
delicious and satisfying episode of the
Chinese sayings podcast